# All about Docker.

## What is Docker?

> Docker is an open **platform** for developing, shipping, and running applications. Docker enables you to separate your applications from your infrastructure so you can deliver software quickly. With Docker, you can manage your infrastructure in the same ways you manage your applications. By taking advantage of Docker’s methodologies for shipping, testing, and deploying code quickly, you can significantly reduce the delay between writing code and running it in production.
### sub-question: What is docker container?
> A Docker container is a **mechanism/standardized unit** for bundling a Linux application with all of its libraries, data files, and environment variables so that the execution environment is always the same, on whatever Linux system it runs and between instances on the same host. Docker containers are user-mode only, so all kernel calls from the container are handled by the host system kernel.

## Why Docker?

> Developing apps today requires so much more than writing code. Multiple languages, frameworks, architectures, and discontinuous interfaces between tools for each lifecycle stage creates enormous complexity. Docker simplifies and accelerates your workflow, while giving developers the freedom to innovate with their choice of tools, application stacks, and deployment environments for each project. Containers are a standardized unit of software that allows developers to isolate their app from its environment, solving the “it works on my machine” headache.

## How to use Docker?

### 1. Install It

My Docker is installed in the form of Docker Desktop on Ubuntu 20.04 (focal) and macOS Big Sur ver. 11.3.1. 

Docker Desktop includes:

- Docker Engine
- Docker CLI client
- Docker Compose-Docker Content Trust
- Kubernetes
- Credential Helper

So you DO NOT need to install Docker Engine before installing Docker Desktop.
TMI: `docker.io` is the name of an older version of Docker.

The standard procedure of installing Docker Desktop on Ubuntu is as shown in the official document https://docs.docker.com/desktop/install/ubuntu/.
Note that if you are installing from local area network and cannot fetch some images from the official website with error message like:
```bash
Err:5 https://download.docker.com/linux/ubuntu focal Release
  Could not handshake: Error in the pull function. [IP: 13.227.74.108 443]
```
just try connecting to another network such as your own personal hotspot (...) and then it might work.

Also note that if you are working in the default home directory (direcetd by `cd`) while the DEB package in installed elsewhere, remember to move it to the working directory and then run `sudo apt-get install ./docker-desktop-<version>-<arch>.deb`.

E.g., the version of Docker Desktop I installed is 4.10.1 and the architecture of my working computer is x86_64/amd64 (yeah they are the same thing - AMD created 64bit extension to Intel x86 instruction set. Intel adopted it and calls it x86–64. Other call it AMD64), so the command was `sudo apt-get install ./docker-desktop-4.10.1-amd64.deb`.

As for MacOS it's much easier, basically you just need to download the package and follow the instructions in https://docs.docker.com/desktop/install/mac-install/.

Having finished the installation, you can check if Docker is running by:
```bash
sudo systemctl status docker
```
and if the status is diplayed as `Active` then it's running.

Furthermore, you can check if it's functioning right and able to connect to Docker Hub by typing commands:
```bash
sudo docker run hello-world
```
and the response expected would be:
```bash
Unable to find image 'hello-world:latest' locally
latest: Pulling from library/hello-world
2db29710123e: Pull complete 
Digest: sha256:53f1bbee2f52c39e41682ee1d388285290c5c8a76cc92b42687eecf38e0af3f0
Status: Downloaded newer image for hello-world:latest

Hello from Docker!
This message shows that your installation appears to be working correctly.

To generate this message, Docker took the following steps:
 1. The Docker client contacted the Docker daemon.
 2. The Docker daemon pulled the "hello-world" image from the Docker Hub.
    (amd64)
 3. The Docker daemon created a new container from that image which runs the
    executable that produces the output you are currently reading.
 4. The Docker daemon streamed that output to the Docker client, which sent it
    to your terminal.

To try something more ambitious, you can run an Ubuntu container with:
 $ docker run -it ubuntu bash

Share images, automate workflows, and more with a free Docker ID:
 https://hub.docker.com/

For more examples and ideas, visit:
 https://docs.docker.com/get-started/
```

However, if you'd like to run some scripts involving NVIDIA GPU, you still have something to do: install nvidia-docker.
>  Docker has been game-changing in how we manage our workflow. Using Docker, we can develop and prototype GPU applications on a workstation, and then ship and run those applications anywhere that supports GPU containers.
>  
>  Docker containers are platform-agnostic, but also hardware-agnostic. This presents a problem when using specialized hardware such as NVIDIA GPUs which require kernel modules and user-level libraries to operate.  As a result, Docker does not natively support NVIDIA GPUs within containers.
>  
>  Nvidia-docker is essentially a wrapper around the docker command that transparently provisions a container with the necessary components to execute code on the GPU. It is only absolutely necessary when using nvidia-docker run to execute a container that uses GPUs, but it can also be used for all Docker commands for simplicity.

For more detailed information, kindly refer to the official docs https://docs.nvidia.com/deeplearning/frameworks/user-guide/index.html.

### 2. Use It

To use it, first we need to know what a Docker image is.

> A Docker image is a file used to execute code in a Docker container. Docker images act as a set of instructions to build a Docker container, like a template. Docker images also act as the starting point when using Docker. An image is comparable to a snapshot in virtual machine (VM) environments.
> 
> Docker is used to create, run and deploy applications in containers. A Docker image contains application code, libraries, tools, dependencies and other files needed to make an application run. When a user runs an image, it can become one or many instances of a container.

To check the images avaiable on your device, you can type:
```bash
docker images
```
and it will return a list of all the images, with the tag, id, date created and size of them:
```bash
REPOSITORY               TAG       IMAGE ID       CREATED        SIZE
docker/getting-started   latest    157095baba98   3 months ago   27.4MB
hello-world              latest    46331d942d63   4 months ago   9.14kB
```

If you are provided with a docker image in which you will be running your code, you can execute the command like:
```bash
docker run -it <the id of your image>
```
and then the prompt your command line will change to the id of your image.

A running instance of an image is called a container. An image can have multiple running containers at the same time. Quoting \@Julien from stackoverflow: "the image is the recipe, the container is the cake".

You can check all the running containers on your device by typing
```bash
docker ps
```
and seeing the list returned, similar to what we got from `docker images`.
```bash
CONTAINER ID   IMAGE                       COMMAND                  CREATED       STATUS                 PORTS                                                  NAMES
95ea683aa2e9   tf26                        "/bin/bash"              6 days ago    Up 6 days                                                                     admiring_neumann
0c5a4e41d4de   mlflow_server               "mlflow server --bac…"   2 weeks ago   Up 2 weeks             0.0.0.0:5506->5000/tcp, :::5506->5000/tcp              mlflow_server
d8b5572f94a0   mysql/mysql-server:5.7.28   "/entrypoint.sh mysq…"   2 weeks ago   Up 2 weeks (healthy)   0.0.0.0:3306->3306/tcp, :::3306->3306/tcp, 33060/tcp   mlflow_db
```

To enter a running container and execute an interactive bash shell inside it, you can type
```bash
docker exec -it <the id of your container> bash
```
seeing the prompt becomes `user@<the id of your container>, yay you are in!


