# Git Commands Cheatsheet

 For further details and better explanations, please refer to [the official Git Guides](https://github.com/git-guides). [The official Git cheatsheet (English)](https://training.github.com/downloads/github-git-cheat-sheet.pdf) can be direcetly downloaded via this link.
## Basic pipeline 

**1. git clone \<repo path\>**
  
 where _\<repo path\>_ coulde be either SSH or HTTP - note that if you are cloning a repo to a remote server, use SSH.
 If you'd like to clone _only one specific branch_, you can `git clone --single-branch --branch <branch name> <repo path>`.
 
 **2. cd \<local repo path\>**
 
 **3. git satus**
 
 Having made some changes to the scripts inside the repo, you can check all the local changes by this command.
 
 **4. git log**
 
 checks the commit history.
 
 **5. git add \<file path\>**
 
 You can add new file to the repo using _git add_.
 
 **6. git commit -m \"description\"**
 
 If you are sure to submit new files to the online repo main branch, use this command, where _description_ could be a breif summary of what you have done. For the ease of use, it can be combined with `git add`, for example, `git add -A && git commit -m "message"` which adds all the untracked files and commit at once.
 
 **7. git pull \( git fetch + git merge\)**
 
 _git pull_ downloads the newest version of repo on the git server and merges them with your local repo. _git fetch_ fetches it but not merging it, a _git merge_ afterwards will do the merging part.
 
 **8. git branch \<new branch name\>, git checkout -b \<new branch name\>**
 
 Creates a new branch from the current branch and switches to it.
  
 **9. git push origin \<remote branch\>**
 
 pushes your codes to the git server. You can choose to push from your current local branch (denoted by `origin`) or any other local branch to remote _master_ branch or any other remote one. 
 
 
## Extra useful commands
  
  Other than the mainly used commands above, there are also some useful commands that could be a bonus in your daily use of git.
 
  ### 1. git stash
 
 **git stash save \"description\"**
 
 If you would like to keep your changes made to the original repo but not to commit them, you can store them using _git stash_. the _save \"description\"_ postfix is optional, but recommended. Having _stash_-ed your codes, they will not be pushed to the git server when you use _git push_.

 **git stash list**
 
 returns a list of all the cached stash. Each stash starts with the format _stash@{\<id\>}_. When you use _git stash apply_, the nearest _stash@{0}_ wiil be used by default.
 
**git stash pop & git stash apply**
 
 when you would like to get the codes in the dungeon back, _git stash pop_ gets the stored codes back to normal, and _git stash apply_ applies the codes in your working directory while not deleting the stored one like _git stash pop_ does. You can apply or pop the desired version of stash by specifying it like _git stash apply stash@{\<id\>}_.
 
 **git stash drop stash@{\<id\>}**
 
 deletes the unwanted stash.
 
 **git stash clear**
 
 deletes all the stashes cached.
 
 ### 2. git fetch
 
 **git fetch origin \<remote branch\>:\<local branch\>**
 
 fetches a remote branch to local repo and creates a corresponding local branch.
 

 
 
 
 
 
