# Logging facilities for programming languages

Nearly all the programming languages have logging APIs provided by some standard library module. In _C++_, we have
`glog` and `gflags`, and in _Python_, we have the official `logging` module. A _logger_ logs the information you would
like to save and usually you can choose printing them in the command line while executing the program.
This article is mainly about logging in _Python_.

## Logging facility for _Python_

There's an [official doc about logging](https://docs.python.org/3/library/logging.html) and a [HOWTO guide](https://docs.python.org/3/howto/logging.html) where you can get to know how 
`logging` is used.

The format of the `msg` in a _logger_ is the same as that of formatted characters.

### Alternative for logging in _Python_

Alternatively, you could log the information desired in another way - using `stdin`,`stdout`, and `stderr`.

Citing the answer by _@brenns10_ via _Stack Overflow_:
> In normal C programs, there are three "files" open by default: `stdin`, `stdout`, and `stderr`. When you do input and output in C, by default they come from stdin and stdout. But, you can also use them where code expects files, or reassign them to be new files.

> Python seeks to "mimic" this behavior of C. When you `print()` in Python, your text is written to Python's `sys.stdout`. When you do `input()`, it comes from `sys.stdin`. Exceptions are written to `sys.stderr`.

> You can reassign these variables in order to redirect the output of your code to a file other than `stdout`. This is very similar to shell redirection, if you're familiar with that. The reason you might do something like this is to keep a log of your program's output or make code "shut up", i.e. not send output to `stdout`. For example:

```python
stdout = sys.stdout
try:
    sys.stdout = open('file.txt', 'w')
    print('blah')
    # etc
finally:
    sys.stdout.close()  # close file.txt
    sys.stdout = stdout
    sys.stderr = stderr
``` 

>This code wouldn't print anything to the console, but it would write "blah" to a text file named `file.txt`. To make this sort of thing less error-prone, Python provides `sys.__stdin__` and `sys.__stdout__`, which always hold the original values of `sys.stdin` and `sys.stdout`. The above code could be made simpler using this:

```python
try:
    sys.stdout = open('file.txt', 'w')
    print('blah')
    # etc
finally:
    sys.stdout.close()  # close file.txt
    sys.stdout = sys.__stdout__
```

>The reason Python has both `stdout` and `__stdout__` is mainly for convenience, so you don't have to make a variable to back up `stdout`.

>However, I have to recommend that you don't make a habit out of reassigning `stdout`. It's pretty easy to mess things up that way! If you want to save your code's output, you can use shell redirection. If you want to have the ability to keep a log of what your program is doing, see Python's `logging` module. If you want your code to be quieter, give your functions a `quiet=False` parameter so you can shut them up when you want! There is rarely a "genuine" need to do reassign `stdout`, etc. Python allows you to do it, because Python gives programmers a lot of control, and expects them to be responsible.

To log the output and error messages of a program in a simple way, you can try

```python
python test_program.py > output_log.stdout \
                       2> error_log.stderr
```
In this case, the filename extension of the log files does not really matter, you can also use
```python
python test_program.py > output_log.txt \
                       2> error_log.err
```
where the first `log` records what was supposed to be printed in the console, and the second `log` records the errors encountered when you execute the program.

