# BLAS (Basic Linear Algebra Subprograms)

## Introduction (TBD)

## CBLAS by OpenBLAS

### Installation

If you happen to be using ubuntu like I am, the good news is that you can install precompiled openblas via `apt-get`. The instructions are listed in [the official user manual](https://github.com/xianyi/OpenBLAS/wiki/Precompiled-installation-packages), where you can also find other supported systems.

Having opanblas installed, you will probably find the `cblas.h` file under `/usr/include` path and `libcblas.so` under `/usr/lib`. They are completely ready for use, so you could just directly `include <cblas.h>` in your C file. In case your program failed to find it, you'd better place them in `target_include_directories` and `target_link_libraries` in the  `CMakeLists`.

### Usage:

The most basic function used in _cblas_ would probably be `cblas_dgemm`, and the variables used in the function can be referred in the official header file `cbals.h`:
```cpp
void cblas_dgemm(CBLAS_LAYOUT layout, CBLAS_TRANSPOSE TransA,
                  CBLAS_TRANSPOSE TransB, const int M, const int N,
                  const int K, const double alpha, const double *A,
                  const int lda, const double *B, const int ldb,
                  const double beta, double *C, const int ldc);
```
where `d` means **d**ouble precision, `ge` means **ge**neric matrices, `mm` means **m**atrix **m**ultiplication. 

What these variables actually denote are as follows:

`CBLAS_LAYOUT layout`: How the matrices are formatted, `CblasColMajor` or `CblasRowMajor`.
What 'ColMajor' and 'RowMajor' means is illustrated intuitively below.



`CBLAS_TRANSPOSE TransA`: Whether the layout of matrix A is the same as `layout` - if `CblasNoTrans`, same; if `CblasTrans`, different. E.g., if `layout` is col-major and `TransA` is `CblasTrans`, the layout of matrix A is row-major.

`CBLAS_TRANSPOSE TransB`: The same usage as `TransA`'s.

`const int M`: The number of rows in matrix `C`. 0 <= `M` <= `ldc`.

`const int N`: The number of columns in matrix `C`. `N` >= 0.

`const int K`: if `TransA` = `CblasNoTrans`, `K` denotes the number of columns in matrix `A`. If `TransA` = `CblasTrans`, `K` denotes the number of rows in matrix `A`. In addition, if `TransB` = `CblasNoTrans`, `K` is the number of rows in matrix `B`. If `TransB` = `CblasTrans`, `K` is the number of columns in matrix `B`.

`const double alpha`: The scalar alpha.

`const double beta`: The scalar beta.

`lda` & `ldb` & `ldc`: The strides represent the distances in memory between elements in adjacent rows (if row-major) or in adjacent columns (if column-major). Usually equal to the number of rows/columns if the matrices are not part of some bigger matrices.

We can get to know how the function is used better in the [official code example](https://github.com/xianyi/OpenBLAS/wiki/User-Manual#code-examples). 

In the code example above, three matrices are declared as 
```cpp
double A[6] = {1.0,2.0,1.0,-3.0,4.0,-1.0};
double B[6] = {1.0,2.0,1.0,-3.0,4.0,-1.0};  
double C[9] = {.5,.5,.5,.5,.5,.5,.5,.5,.5}; 
```
and the multiplication is implemented via
```cpp
cblas_dgemm(CblasColMajor, CblasNoTrans, CblasTrans,3,3,2,1,A,3, B, 3,2,C,3);
```
The result stored in C is printed as
```cpp
11.000000 -9.000000 5.000000 -9.000000 21.000000 -1.000000 5.000000 -1.000000 3.000000
```
By reading the codes we know that the actual matrices are 
```markdown
A = [ 1 -3    B = [ 1  2  1    C = [0.5 0.5 0.5
      2  4         -3  4 -1]        0.5 0.5 0.5
      1 -1]                         0.5 0.5 0.5]
```
and the computatioin is
```math
C = \alpha * A * B + \beta *C
```




